Ako lang. Kasi yung actually we live in my in-laws house, my mother-in-law, my father-in-law is not here. Pero since ako yung may experience sa solar, ako yung ina-ally for that conversation po.
Okay. No worries po, Sir Leo. So again, good afternoon, Sir Leo. My name is Harpo. I'm the head of the sales and administration for ACESolar Corporation but we go by name ACESolar.
So this will just take a few minutes po. It will only take 30 minutes for the presentation. I'll go ahead and discuss the company, what are the services that we offer, what are the components and the process in case we move forward with the installation.
So if you have any questions Sir Leo, just feel free to interrupt me along the way and I'll be more than happy to answer it po. But before we start Sir, what made you decide to reach out to us po? Are you a referral or are you already tired of paying high electricity bills? Ano po bang reason Sir?
Definitely electricity bills po. That's really the only reason and then so sinabi sa akin mag-check ng anong mga solar companies in Las Piña. So I just did a search in Facebook.
Okay. You are located in Las Piñas din, correct Sir?
Be for short, yes, correct.
Be for short, okay. Sir if you don't mind me asking, how much are you paying monthly po? Like the average?
Kasi the house has multiple units pero the main unit ng bahay, that's the one na ikakabit ng solar. Ang average nasa medyo tumaa siya kasi dumami ang mga tao sa bahay. So maybe nine?
Nine thousand po. And with that nine thousand bill Sir, what are the appliances that are running during daytime?
During the daytime kasi work from home, so there's at least one aircon na almost whole day siya. Inverter naman pero almost whole day kasi work from home kami.
And then there are one, two, three. One, two, three, four, five, six computers.
Okay.
Parang ano na office. Six computers and then one more aircon na minsan inaon. During the daytime.
Okay. Don't mind me asking Sir, what's the horsepower po of that AC?
The one that's constantly is 1.5%.
1.5.
Yeah. One or 1.5.
Okay. So technically Sir ang main talaga nagkukos ng high electricity bill natin. It's because of the aircon.
Yes.
And the computers.
And the computers, yes. Because I believe that's six PCs. Ano ba to Sir, yung gaming PC po ba to?
Three desktops and three desktops, three laptops.
Okay.
Kasi may mga students na rin na nag-aapast.
Okay. All right. Sige Sir, meron po ba tayong pump?
Water pump? No.
Okay. All right. So thank you for sharing that information, Sir Leo.
So what I'll do, I'll start with the presentation and then after that, I'll go ahead and give my recommendation and why am I giving that recommendation then po?
All right. Excellent.
So again, good afternoon. My name is Arlene or you can call me Har. So we are ACESolar Corporation. We go by name ACESolar.
So ACESolar has been in the industry po since 2017 and our warehouse is located in Las Pinas while our sales office is located in BF Homes, Paranaque.
So we are also a legit registered company. We are a PCAB licensed contractor both for private as well as for government projects and we offer a different type of system po.
So I believe since you are already scouting for a lot of solar companies, meron na po ba tayong idea how the solar works or may inaayin na po ba tayong system?
Sir Leo?
Sorry. Hello. Can you hear me?
Yes.
So you're asking about if there's any specific solar system?
Well, honestly speaking, the reason why ako yung pinakanvas is because I actually worked for a solar company but Australian based.
So really I just want to see what's available in the Philippines although I'm familiar with some of the brands and systems that are used in Australia pero siyempre may regional differences yan.
So I wanted to see the presentation.
Preferably though, I'd like to go with Taiwanese brands if possible pero I know those are a bit more pricey so we'll just see what we can come up with.
Alright sige sir. Okay so I think since you are working for a solar company this will just be easy for us, for both of us.
So technically we have three types of system. We have the off-grid, grid-tie, and hybrid.
So as we know, off-grid is basically recommended for remote areas.
This is a stand-alone system wherein you are directly dependent from the sun and from the battery.
Now for us, since we are located in BF Resort, Las Piñas, what we normally recommend is the grid-tie system.
So grid-tie, technically you're tied up with grid. In case of power interruption, wala tayong power because we don't have the battery.
So this is how it looks like, the system. So again, advantages of grid-tie is that much affordable, faster return of investment.
The only downside is that again, if there's a power interruption, you don't have power as well because you don't have the battery.
Which goes to our third system, the hybrid system wherein you're tied up with grid. And in case of power interruption, you have backup.
So technically it's the same benefits when it comes to grid-tie. The only downside of it is that the initial investment is higher compared to a grid-tie system.
This is because of the battery that we are using. So later on I'll show you din po what battery that we are using.
Now for us naman po, we cater NCR, some parts of Calabarzon as well as Central Luzon.
So any type of roof po we can install whether it's tegula or just the normal long stand. Do we have an idea po ba? Which type of roof do we have?
Yeah, magulo. Kaya kailangan ng inspection. Medyo na renovate yung house nilang BS66 so I can't give you...
I can show you on the map siguro pero you'll have to check it. Medyo concerned din ako kasi may mango tree.
So yan yung mga factors na we have to check po. As you can see yung mga samples natin dito sir talagang walang obstruction dun sa roof.
So that's something that we have to consider when we conduct a site visit. Anyway, we'll go ahead and schedule naman po that one.
So for our residential, this is the projects that we had. While for commercial naman po, this is the projects that we had.
And for industrial projects, yan po siya. Wait lang po sir.
Sir go ahead.
Alright sorry about that. Okay so these are the top view. Eto naman po sir sa baba. So these are the sample for the inverters and for the battery.
So if we opt for hybrid, yan po yung dalawang pictures na nasa taas while yung nasa baba naman po is the sample for grid tie.
So everything is well-mounted para space saver po tayo.
Now next naman po is why should you choose ACES Solar? So first is after-sale support. Since you are also near in the area, mas mabilis po ang response.
Although the process for our after-sale support is that you can send us a message or give us a call and then we'll try to resolve the issue remotely.
And then it will not be resolved but that's the time we send a technician within 24 to 48 hours. So again you can rest assured po that our company is trained and well equipped to support any concerns.
Now second naman po is premium components meaning to say we only use tier 1 brands. So these are the brands that went through proper testing, certified, and listed.
So again at the end of the day we don't want to use substandard kasi nga po it can cause fire. So every components that we are using are certified products po.
Now third is trusted contractors. So right now I'm sure nag-check na rin po kayo online and when you check online there's a lot of solar contractors in the market but only few are legit.
So since this is a long-term investment po we want to make sure that the company is reliable and stable kasi at the end of the day po if we have any issues we want to make sure that there's a company that we can go back to.
So like for us we are a fully registered company and a licensed member of Philippine Contractors Accreditation Board.
Now lastly naman po is value for money. So since we act as your consultant po we want to make sure that you understand what you are paying for.
Because again at the end of the day it's not a small amount it's a hard-earned money so we want to make sure that our recommendation will also tailor fit based on your need.
Now these are the sample feedback and reviews. I'm sure you can check this naman po on our page.
And earlier po I mentioned that you only use premium components so we carry different kinds of panels po to give options to our clients.
So all of the panels that we are using are monocrystalline panel either it's silicon or bifacial po.
So they're all tier 1 brands. So for our standard what we are using is Longi which is made in China with 12 years product warranty po.
And then for our premium what we're using is also Phono Solar which is a known brand in Europe and Australia.
It's a bifacial with 15 years product warranty and 30 years linear performance warranty po.
And then for our top of the line what we're using is Sunpower which is a US brand.
So I'm sure sirs Australia popular din si Sunpower. So US with 25 years product warranty.
Now another main component po is for the inverter. So for the inverter, for grid tie what we're using is Sunways which offers 5 years product warranty.
We either use Sunways po or Dei. So depending on the availability po either dun po sa inverter na yan that's what we're using for grid tie.
Now for hybrid po the only product that we are using is Luxpower which offers 5 years product warranty.
And for the battery which is Lithium under Linus offers 10 years product warranty po.
This is regardless of standard premium or whatever. Those are the inverters.
Yes that's correct sir. So the only thing that changes is the brand of the solar panels.
Now what's good with our system po is that once we install it we will connect it to the internet of your house.
So for that po there's an app or a web base that you can download on your phone for monitoring purposes.
So for grid tie, that's the one on the left side po, you will see the house consumption, how much the solar generates and if we are getting from the grid.
Yun po yung top 3 items. This is the Sunways interface. Yes that's correct.
So on the app as well you will see the daily, monthly and yearly savings and from the time that we energize your system.
And at the bottom naman po may kita natin yung early generation and consumption natin.
While on the other side naman po which is on the bottom right, that's for hybrid naman po.
The difference is you'll see the battery whether it's charging or discharging.
And with hybrid po it's 24 hours monitoring.
With grid tie po kasi automatic yan mag-e-sleep mode pag wala nang nag-generate na power.
So automatic din po siyang mag-o-on sa daytime. Unlike with hybrid, it's 24-7 po.
Tama, because of the battery. Yes that's correct sir.
So there you go. Any questions so far po?
So paro naman, siguro sa presentation, after the presentation na.
Alright. So part of our package is 1-year workmanship warranty.
So high maintenance po ba si solar? Hindi naman po.
What we normally do is at least once a year cleaning and system check up.
So the fee for that is 3,000 or 500 per kilowatt whichever is higher po.
So normally we reach out to our clients first quarter to advise them if they want to have their solar panels clean.
Pero if you have helper naman po, let's just say you have someone who can clean it, we can teach them naman po on how to clean it.
Now common question is, paano po pag may bagyo bakali pa rin?
So ang lagi ko pong sagot diyan, pag kaya pong tanggalin ng bagyo yung bubong nyo, tanggal din po si solar panels.
Kasi po, naka-drill po siya sa purlins ng roof.
Now second question naman po is paano pag may leaks?
So part of our contract is that if it's proven our fault, then it's gonna be on our expense.
But so far naman po, we've been in the industry for so long.
Wala pa naman po kasi bago po pumasok ng text crew, meron po siyang silicon sealant.
And then in here po, meron siyang rubber seal.
And then on top po ulit, meron siyang another sealant.
So normally, once we do the installation po, we take a video din that we properly sealed the L-foot and we show it to the client po.
And then lastly, wala naman po mga ngalawang kasi what we're using are aluminum and stainless for the screws po.
And then for the wire rings, it will be inside an HDPE pipe.
So wala po diyan exposed. The only exposed is the pipe which is UV rated. Minimum lifespan is 50 years po.
Now I'm sure very familiar kay dito sorry kasi sa Australia talagang ito yung net metering is something that they really offer.
So here in the Philippines po, this is just optional.
Again, if you can maximize your system, no need for you to apply.
But if you have an excess harvest or an excess energy, this is something that you may want to consider po.
So this is an actual bill of one of our clients. We're in the experience a zero bill.
So this was around 2002 or 2021 if I'm not mistaken.
So that time sir, at least nasa P5 pa. Pero currently nasa P7 na po ngayon yung bili ni Meralco per kilowatt.
Nasa P7 na po ang rate ngayon ni Meralco. Gano po yung bili niya per kilowatt.
So more than 50% naman na siya unlike before po.
So for the net metering, you have the option to avail our service. That's 39,575.
It's an end-to-end process po wherein we apply to Meralco, to LGU, as well as to ERC and we do the remodeling.
But if you opt to apply it on your own, we can provide po the requirements that are needed, the basic requirements po that are needed.
So yun po siya. Normally the processing time is three to six months. Eto po six to eight months is during pandemic po siya.
So for net metering po normally what we recommend to our clients is malapit po siya sa Meralco meter.
Bakit po? Kasi requirement po ni Meralco na kailangan expose po yung bakal na tubo from the inverter going to the meter.
So once net metered po tayo, ganyan po yung maikita niya sa lower right.
A requirement talaga nila na ganyan, naka-expose?
Yes, sir.
Gusto nilang ma-sure, sir, na talagang galing sa solar po yung binibenta kay Meralco.
Yun po yung nila.
Although si Meralco lang nag-require nyan pero sila Batelik, hindi naman po kailangan talaga na yung bakal ang gamit.
But that's only for pag na-co-opt namin yung option ng net metering?
Yes, that's correct. Pero sir, yung from the inverter going to the meter, whether mag-avail kayo or hindi, pinoprovision na po namin siya.
Okay, sige.
So question lang, sir, yung sa main Meralco meter ninyo po, meron po kayong katulad nyan ng gray box?
Meron. I'm just not sure if it's outside or inside the garage.
I have to check. Kasi may dalawa dito sa loob ng garage. I'm not sure which one is which.
Okay. Okay lang yun, sir. Importante meron po tayo ng service disconnect or yung NEM ako.
Diyan na po yung magiging tapping point natin, sir. Hindi na po tayo papasok sa loob ng house.
So for us naman po, before I discuss the processor, with the appliances that you provided earlier, at least a 4kW system will do.
For a 4kW system, it can generate up to 480kWh per month. So that's around P5,000 savings.
That's in Philippine weather estimates. Yung sun hours ng Philippines.
Yes. So based on our location, normally it's 4 hours na po ang sun hours natin. So that's from 10 a.m. to 2 p.m.
Pag summer, yun, medyo mahaba-haba mas ano siya kasi mahaba po yung araw natin. Pero the conservative computation po is 4 hours per day.
So pwede pala ng sa 9k na bill, pwede pala ng 4kKW system na?
That's based on the appliances that you provided, sir. So ang mga pang-over lang yan, sir, is yung daytime consumption po natin.
If the goal is to potentially zero your bill, assuming that 50% of your bill po is daytime, so kung gusto nating ma-zero bill siya, sir,
kailangan natin ng at least 12kW system and then apply for net metering.
Yun, yeah. Kasi yun ang magiging concern. 10 to 2, mapabukas na yung 10 to 2.
Most of the usage is in the afternoon.
Yan, sir. So yun, sir, kung afternoon, kung mga 12 o'clock yan, maganda na rin yung mas-save natin nun.
Maganda either net metering or hybrid.
For hybrid kasi, yan yung common ng client na parang mag-hybrid ako para meron akong gagamitin sa nighttime.
Pero nakadependi kasi yan, sir, sa consumption natin sa nighttime and sa capacity ng battery.
So kung nari, sir, 1.5hp, pag ginamit mo yan, for a 10kWh battery, it can only run for 4 to 5 hours.
Raint na yung battery mo, sir.
So kami, sir, me as a consumer, normally ang nire-recommend talaga namin kay client para cost-efficient is grid tie plus net metering po.
Para mag-abawi na lang sa excess charge, sa excess consumption.
Yun talaga siya, sir. Pero although kung gusto niyo talaga mag-battery, sir, pwede naman. Pero the main purpose of battery talaga is for...
No, actually ayoko eh. Kasi there's no safe place to put a battery dito sa bahay.
Oh, okay. Yun, sir. So ako, sir, sinasabing sa client, if we have the means to pay for the battery, might as well get a bigger system then apply for net metering.
Sige. Pero this is ano still, pag no power, pag blackout, no power pa rin, diba?
Yes, sir.
Okay, understood.
So, sir, we can go for four, we can go for five. And then normally what our clients do naman kasi, sir, is they start with five.
They apply for net metering, they monitor it after a month or two para makita natin kung ilan pa yung matitira.
And then after that, if we still want to zero the bill, then we can always upgrade naman.
Oh, upgradeable naman.
Yes, sir. So like for example, sir, if we go for five kilowatt, the inverter is ready for an eight kilowatt system.
So we can upgrade in the future once we are already net metered.
Yan po siya. So yan, sir. So for payment terms po, it's 50% down payment upon contract signing. For residential, 50% upon turnover, sir.
So we accept cash check bank transfer. We have currently a rainy day promo which will be provided once we sent out the quotation.
However, if we use a credit card po, we will follow the regular price.
And we have the option to do installment plan via MetroBank and PSBank.
So the lead time po, contract signing is seven to ten business days.
The installation po for eight kilowatt and below is only one to two days.
Normally po on the second day, power up na po tayo, sir. Magagamit na po natin ng system.
Okay. Yung installment plan, MetroBank and PSBank lang accepted, no other banks?
Straight payment na tayo, sir, for other banks po. And then you can call your bank po to apply for installment.
Pero installment, MetroBank, it has to be a credit card or pwede check?
For checks, sir, magiging ano siya, good as cash po.
We don't have PDC po, sir.
Okay. So installment plan lang talaga is via credit card sa MetroBank and PSBank? Okay.
Yes, sir. So again, we can send you a quotation for five kilowatt.
In that way, we have an excess a bit for net metering po.
Pwedeng five kilowatt and eight kilowatt so I can check for comparison.
Yeah, sure. Definitely, sir. We can go ahead and send you five kilowatt and eight kilowatt po.
Para iin na yung max out ng inverter, no? Eight kilowatt, so.
Yes, sir. Apo.
Tapos, how many panels usually for a four kilowatt pag standard lang?
For four kilowatt, sir.
For four kilowatt, that's eight pieces po. For five kilowatt, that's ten.
For eight kilowatt po, that's fifteen.
Ten to fifteen. Naku.
So normally, our solar panels po kasi we give at least 2.6 per piece.
So we need around 40 square meters po, sir. For if we go for eight kilowatt system.
Yeah, that might. I'll definitely need an inspection.
Medo magulo yung grouping namin kasi.
Sige, sir. Don't worry. Once we conduct a site visit naman po, they will explain naman
whether feasible po ba yung gantong kadaming panels or what is the most we can do with your roof
para maging efficient po siya.
Kasi yung isang side is west facing eh.
Eh, di ba dapat preferable north or south facing ang panel?
Preferably, sir, facing south, southwest or west po.
Okay, so pwede rin west para sa umaga. Strong naman yung sun power sa umaga. Sun hours, sorry.
Yes, sir. Normally kasi, sir, 10 o'clock almost nasa top na yan ng roof natin eh.
Although yung ikot kasi ng sun, sir, nasa south. Kaya south, southwest or west po tayo.
Yung roofing namin kasi is medyo west facing mostly.
That's where the most surface area na pwede lagay ng panel is.
Yun ang pinaka the best kasi mas mahabap po si afternoon sun.
Okay.
Yun. So yun lang naman po, sir.
So please expect an email from us po for the quotation.
Do you have any more questions po, sir Leo?
I think really my only concern talaga is to
kung feasible talaga sa bahay namin kasi medyo concern talaga ko sa
yung location ng inverter at saka yung spacing ng solar panels.
Those are the only concerns that I really have which is why I need a professional to check it.
So they can verify kung tama. Okay, kaya ba or hindi?
Most likely, sir, if we're going to schedule a site visit po, it will be on the afternoon para at least makita natin.
Kasi you mentioned, sir, meron kayong puno.
So para at least pag nagpalipad kami ng drone, sir, mas maiikita po kung meron bang shadow.
I can also send you the picture ng maps para at least you have an idea.
Sige, sir. You can go ahead and send it po on our page, sir.
Okay. Send ko mamaya.
Sige, sir.
So request ka for five and eight na quotation.
Standard lang po. So basic lang yung babayarin namin.
Tapos isasama din yung with or without net metering, diba?
Yes, sir. We'll send you also a net metering quotation for that, sir.
As well as the requirements po para may idea na tayo, sir, kung ano yung makilangan natin i-prepare for net metering.
Most likely sa net metering, I can say already na we'll go with the end-to-end service.
Kasi medyo wala akong oras at matanday siya yung mother-in-law so mas okay someone handles it for us.
No worries, sir. Sige, po.
We'll send you the quotation for a grid tie system for five kilowatt and eight kilowatt as well as the net metering quotation and requirements po, sir.
Alright. Thank you very much.
Alright, sir. If you have any questions po, just feel free to send us a message on our page, sir.
And again, thank you so much for your time, sir Leo. Have a great day ahead, po.
Okay. Thank you.
Thank you. Bye-bye.
