sign in details but yeah I'm Steve or Stevie all right okay all right so good
good morning Stevie this is John I'm the project manager for AC solar brilliant nice to meet you
John and just to let you know my wife is here she's unfortunately not feeling well so she's just not on
the camera but she's beside me yeah no worries it's okay I hope she gets fine real soon all right so
um okay I'll be sharing my screen and um I'll do a quick presentation and by the way before
I start do you have any idea right now it comes to solar not a lot to be honest with you um so
I suppose just something that we've not seriously considered for our sort of home setup but because
we now have this um but we've we've we've turned into a farm project turned into an airbnb
and we've got a few let's say challenges with it um you know number one cost number two the actual
main supply on the electricity brownouts so we're just looking at what our most suitable option is
but um in terms of the the technology or the requirements not so much um I have to say like
uh it's quite overwhelming the number of companies that are actually out they didn't expect
I thought it might be like okay you know here's five companies take your pick which is the best but
the number of like you know through sponsored ads on Facebook or whatever I've even I'm not even
clicking because there's just like so many different ones so um yeah in in truth then
we need a better understanding of what yeah what what's kind of what's out there does it
meet our requirements and then is it going to be cost effective for us really all right okay so
just to clarify if I got it correctly um the purpose of this um the purpose of you inquiring about
solar is for your airbnb units is that right yeah and that's in laia batangas
okay now um is your main concern uh is about the power interruptions
or is it about saving your bill yeah so so both really um the so I suppose
our so our our situation is when we we bought some land last year we didn't really have a
particular plan with it we thought it'd be somewhere nice for us to go and use on a weekend
because we developed it at a faster rate than we anticipated it's like a kubo type of setup we
we then decided okay well in order to make it sustainable we put in a pool and things like
that to make it sustainable we should um at least put it on airbnb so it kind of you know if
it covers the running costs kind of things like that um the the bills obviously have gone up because
of that because we're maintaining a pool we have a deep well we've added additional kuba you know it's
still a small development but we have like four rooms with all with aircon we have electric fans
we've got lights you know so it's the of course the electricity bill's gone up I think
the the biggest one was around 17 18 000 like that so the cost was one foot but to be honest we
probably wouldn't be looking at that you know such a big outlay at this stage we're very early on in
in that sort of journey however of late what we've also um discovered is that because we've
added this additional um you know the appliances etc then there's also a challenge with
the the main supply meaning that it could it can if everything's turned on at once it will trip the
the power supply that coupled with the fact that there are um it doesn't happen regularly to be
honest but if there's a brown out then yeah it is a problem because suddenly it gets very hot and it
gets so we don't at the moment we don't have any generator we don't have any backup one of the very
recent things that's kind of come to light in the the discussion with the energy supply
with the electricity supply company is that we don't have our own transformer so their
recommendation is oh you know you should you know you should have your own transformer
you will experience less problems you know with the with the tripping and whatever
um that might be what we need to do um my only concern with that is obviously a we have to
put the cost of that and b of course that doesn't bring us any sort of cost savings or whatever so we
wanted to understand well actually what you know potentially how might a solar setup help and
um any number of those challenges that that we have
all right um okay so thank you so much for sharing that um all right please now i have a better
understanding on the needs that you that you have there now um i'll be discussing i'll be doing a
quick presentation and i will be explaining the different types of system and i will also give
you a recommendation on i think what would be the best or at least i can give you some choices
at least i can give you some choices um of course solar energy system has its own limitations
as well uh so we may discuss what would be the advantage of the solar system that we can put it
in your in your house in your vacation okay so let me just start it right now so our company
names is the solar corporation um or known as aces solar
sorry we got disconnected um oh yeah i suppose i should also let you know that that our
our internet has been very temperamental of late we're having challenges with pldt
it looks fine at the moment but if it does go down it might be that we get disconnected for a
period of a few minutes or whatever if that happens we will just reconnect as soon as we
possibly can or try to get you phone data or whatever but we'll um but yeah just so you're aware
you're not alarmed but if we yeah we won't have uh we won't have the window yeah it's okay so
are you um can you see my screen right now i can yeah yeah okay all right so um there we go again
i mean our company names aces solar corporation and uh we are a legit registered company our
company is based in bf parangake and las pina so we have our sales office in bf parangake in our
um warehouse in las pina city now um this is our so we do supply and install
now in the to give you an idea if you look on the right side
okay there are three types of solar energy system one is off grid second is grid tie system
and the third one is hybrid system so um basically the off grid system this is
from it toward itself that it's off grid so um you're not using meralko but this is not really
applicable in your situation this is more of if there is no power in the area and um it's
applicable for like remote areas so that um you can have your own electricity but the capacity
depends on the battery itself so this is something that is really expensive but um
expensive and limited so we don't really recommend that or you only do that if you don't
have meralko now the second one is called the grid system okay so the grid system is this is
um the most common or um the one that is usually used when there is a there is an
electricity grid like meralko now um what are the pros of this it reduces your electricity bill um
it has lower upload cost because it's the cheapest setup that we have um having this the cheapest
setup it's uh it has faster return of investment and of course it increase the value of your
property and reduce carbon print now how does it work so during daytime if you have the system
the grid tie system your primary source of energy is your solar power okay and then the secondary
source of energy is your grid or meralko in your case i don't know what's laia's suppliers
okay so first it's going to be solar and then it's going to be battling they are tied up together
so basically if for example if during daytime uh let's say the solar can only provide 80 percent
of your load power 20 will be coming from battle left okay now come let's say around 4 pm to 5 pm
the sun is going down um so it can only provide like maybe less than 50 the other half would
come from battle left so um basically this is just for savings it's not a solution for
for power interruptions or burnout um because if the the battery goes down it also goes down it
won't work independently because it doesn't have any storage it doesn't have any batteries right so
okay so yeah i see so it would also mean that the the issue that i described with the
transformer it's not going to it'll only help that situation during the day
but as soon as the sun goes down and we're not getting the power from the the solar panels it
means that the full load is going to be on the um back on the main setup right which means
if is yeah okay understood right so this one um this is a decision if you want to make if
you're going to just use it for savings during daytime because i know it's airbnb and people would
use their reduce your at the whole day even if they're not in the room right so that's for
grid tie now the third one is what we call the hybrid system so hybrid system is same as the grid
but the only difference is there is a storage a battery storage so how does it work so during
daytime um your solar would provide the power to your appliances and then the excess harvest
will be stored in the battery so once the battery the energy stored in the battery
um we can set up like a percentage on how much the do we want to use on the battery
during nighttime or during the late afternoon um and then we will set up the percentage on
how much it would be the backup power especially during that time so for example uh you can set the
battery for 50 um self-use meaning if there is no more sign it will use the 50 of it and then the
other half would be used for uh power interruptions during nighttime okay now the limitation on of
this system is that your the the usually the the appliances that we power up during interruptions
or brownouts is the essentials like for example your internet your fan your fridge um
um lights but not including the ac or the aircon that's because ac has a lot of uh it
draws a lot of power yeah so uh it can like drain the the battery in like a few hours so
um so there that's how it really works so if you're if you have if you're expecting some
power interruptions like on a daily basis or we can set up the battery up to like let's say just
100 percent for power interruptions so like i mean in reality the power interruptions don't happen
that frequently okay would it because obviously cost saving would also be a big a big fix so let's say
you know because obviously if it's like i don't know almost like wasted power like
the battery has charge would it not be better i understand that you might need to reserve some
right because in case there's power up but would we not want it to be utilizing that power i don't know
let's say up to the so saving 20 percent but it's utilizing that you've set it up that way right so
it could so it will continue to you'll use that in the first instance up to a certain point and
that's when you'll you say okay 20 percent we're gonna save back for just in case that through
the night there's a interruption something like that yeah that's that's that
oh uh you've just gone on to i just lost your audio for a second there
oh we we would set it up though the industry that's the that is how the system works
so we can oh sorry the audio you can see what happened it was
30 percent before but the audio has has gone gone really bad okay can you hear me now yeah yeah
yeah that's perfect yeah it's okay all right so the way you describe it that is how the system
works and um we can set it up like 30 40 depends on how much you want to reserve on your battery
and then during daytime um it's it doesn't matter because it will be charged the
the solar panels will be charging the battery even though it will still work even without the
battery working got it so i suppose it it'd be fair to say then that the startup costs are going to be
definitely a lot higher but it should also have the biggest um the biggest uh reduction
on the the bill right on the on the oh well sorry obviously if it was completely off grid
um set up that'd be different right but we that's not um no that's not obvious but it but versus the
um versus the um the what was it called the tie grid tie option yeah the grid
action the the the savings on the monthly bills should be more with the hybrid setup right because
we can still utilize that power over the overnight as well um to be uh let me share my experience
with the hybrid um the battery that we have is five kilowatt hour okay uh five kilowatt hours
it's a lithium battery um so at 100 it's five kilowatt hour with the depth of discharge up to
90 so basically you'll be having like um what do you call this uh let's just say you you get
saving a five kilowatt hour per night so that's just equivalent to five times the how much is your
kilowatt hour rate so in manila it's like 12 pesos so that's five times 12 so that's just like 60
pesos per day for your battery then for the morning usage um you're depending on how many panels you
would want to put in your house then um that is where we will be counting how much savings you
will get but here's my question is the power interruption there intolerable is it really frequent or
um like in truth no it's been fairly infrequent um from that from that point of view now the
the only problem is that we don't have at the moment we don't have any kind of solution so it
might be and obviously a lot depends on the on the costings but it could be that for example
we end up with uh uh i don't know we have a um instead of the hybrid system we have the
the grid tie but then we also have i don't know like a uh i don't know generator or a power
you know just as a look if if this happens at least then you can look you can go and plug
your phones in and do you know whatever right because yeah so correct me placing myself
in your shoes is that i would if if you would be able to i mean if the power interruption is
not that frequent then uh maybe you can have a small generator to solve the problem in the
brown house and then for your savings because you have a big uh or a large amount of uh
bottleneck bill then we can go with the grid tie system because that is the
the it's more cheaper it's cost efficient and um the next question though that i have for you is
how many air condition do you use during daytime versus night time um well we have
um right now because we just added uh we added one so they're all cubos so the aircons are
i think 0.6 um they're all small rooms so 0.6 um hp um but it's it well so i'd say if you're
going to look at it on an average then definitely there's certain days where there's nobody in there
at all so they're not being used but there will be times where if it's full they're going to be all
used you know all four used and obviously we don't have control if people are using it in the day
because people go and have naps or whatever and the likelihood is everyone's going to be if the
rooms are full everyone would use it overnight so that that could be the um yeah that that's in
reality that would be the challenge all right in that case um the the bill that you have we would
see if like for example if it's 50 daytime and then 50 night time then that's how we will be
designing the system for you for if you're going to choose the grid tie system
can you easily change the the setup and for example like um right now it's off-peak season right so
we don't have a lot of guests coming in um can we can we set it up there's not a lot of guests so
let's say monday to friday walang guests can i set it up that the uh solar is is using i mean
providing the the the power all day um and then and then change it when when there's a guest in in the
in the area change the setup to like 50 percent um solar and 50 percent
um basically ma'am what will happen is once we install the solar power um it automatically makes
the or it automatically um what do you call this it's like your solar power will be will be your
primary source of energy whatever appliances during date so uh i think that my question was
um with the bill that you have we want to i need to know if 50 percent of that
bill is being used during daytime or nighttime you get like for example there are houses that
or for example in a commercial establishment they work eight to five in the morning so
the biggest chunk of their bill comes from the from comes from daytime so let's say 80 percent
daytime so um in your case uh it will just be like the primary source of your energy during
daytime would be insult with being with solar yeah like i would say yeah it's probably difficult
for us to so this is we also have a swimming pool right so the the you know the pump and
everything and that's that's likely to be being used in the day the aircon more likely at night
because people in the pool in the daytime so it might be that 50 50 but we don't have any
i suppose scientific way of determining that right but it's something that yeah we would be
you know there will be electricity being used 24 hours of the day in reality yeah so there um so
just to set your proper expectation um the savings that you will be getting would be from your data
usage yes yeah understood all right so let me just continue with my presentation here um
here is our sample uh accomplished projects this are residential
hello okay all right there and then um these are our commercial projects and some industrial
projects all right
hey you're on mute again i think
I can't hear you.
You can hear me?
Now I can.
Alright, hold on.
Yeah, so I think the point is
if we're to have that hybrid setup,
it's only really
to solve
because as soon as you have that budget,
that's what costs the money.
And so it only really solves the
issue of
if you have brownout.
But the problem is,
is even then the actual
storage of that battery,
it's minimal.
So we're talking like
potentially you'd have the
Okay, so I'm back.
So here's the,
on the screen right now, you will see the
on the upper part that is the hybrid
setup.
And then on the lower part, that is the grid tie system.
So you don't have batteries
on the grid tie.
It's all wall mounted.
Needs to be close to your
main circuit breaker
so that you can do the
proper wiring.
Okay.
And then there.
So why choose ACES Solar?
We've been in the industry since 2017.
And you can also assure that our company
is well equipped and trained to support any concerns.
Now,
we only use premium components.
So
we only use PR1 brands
like all
the certified and UL
listed products. Because of course,
this is a
energy
providing system. So it needs to be
safe.
And then Traster Contractor, we're not just a fully
registered company. We're also a member of the
Philippine Contractors Accreditation
Board.
Or PCAB. And then value
for our money. So we tailor fit
the
needs of our clients. So we just
don't provide whatever they want.
We have to study first what
would be the best and cost efficient
unit or system for you.
Out of interest, what's the size of the
company?
What do you mean by size right now?
Well,
number of employees,
really what I'm asking is
because these
I believe come with quite a long
warranty,
obviously, for us
if we're to go with
this kind of setup
regardless of the company, we want to
feel secure
that 10 years later, 15
years later, the company is still there to provide
the maintenance or
warranty like that.
So basically right now, our focus
is in doing residential
clients.
So with our installation team, we have
at least 15 employees
with mix of
electricians and our engineer
and our
skilled workers. And then
we also have a team of a sales team
that is around
eight people
including the sales head.
And just
to let you know, we also
import our
own solar panels.
So not just like the other
companies that buy
from the local suppliers.
We also do our import and we
are partnered with a brand of
solar panels that I'll be discussing in a bit.
Okay. Alright. Thank you.
So here
we got feedbacks on our
installation. You can see this in our page.
And then the components
brands that we use.
Alright.
So in our installation,
sorry, in our quotation,
you will be seeing three levels of
offer or quotation.
The first one is the standard.
So we use this brand. It's Longi.
It's made in China.
It's a tier one brand. It's also certified.
And it offers 12 years product
warranty. Now,
the second one is the premium. This is Phono
Solar. It has the
latest bi-facial
panel. It means that
both front and back are
both glass. And then
it offers 15 years
product warranty. So this is also
a tier one manufacturer. This is the brand
that we
import.
So if you go to our warehouse,
you'll be able to see
the panels that we have there.
So this is the premium.
And then the third brand
that we carry is Sunpower.
Sunpower is a US brand.
It offers 25 years
product warranty. However, the price of this
is...
It has a big
difference between the premium and the standard one.
So there. And the Sunpower is like
the number one solar. If you
do research on it.
And then these are the inverters that we use.
So we have our grid tie and our hybrid and the battery.
So that's how they look. They're
all mounted. And then you'll
be getting online monitoring.
So you'll be able to monitor your
production of your
solar as long as the solar
inverter is connected to your internet.
So even if you're in Manila,
you will still see the performance of your solar.
You will see how
much is the
load or the usage
of your house there
or your resort.
And how much is being produced
by solar and how much you are getting from
battling.
I'm not sure it's appropriate time
to ask, but just because
it's on my mind.
Obviously one of the...
When we look at the pictures,
the setup that you
have already,
they're all in like...
They're proper houses
or warehouses.
Now our reality is that on our
farmland, we have four
Kubo type setups with the...
I don't know if you know better than me, but
I call it like the straw type.
The dried leaves on the
roofs. The only
real thing we've got,
we have like a
pergola where it's got
the roof is
what do you call that?
Transparent corrugated roof.
Yes.
So like
thick plastic kind of
roofing and then we have the
very small
the pump house
for the housing, the
pump and stuff for the pool. So I suppose
one thought is, well actually
even if we did want to go
with like, do we even have a sufficient
place that the panels could be
installed would be the other
concern that I have.
Anong requirement ng panel installation?
Alright.
Okay. So I'll get
to that. Let's just do this once
page real quick. So
before I go to the
installation part, we offer
one year workmanship warranty and normally
the maintenance is
we do cleaning and system checkup
annually.
So that's how you would maintain your
solar panels. Or if
you have people to do it for you, we can just
teach them and then they can do the cleaning
if you want to do more frequent.
Alright. Now regarding to the
installation of the solar panels,
normally this is how it looks.
So in a normal corrugated roof
like this,
there is a tech screw.
I just have a question though. On your
plastic
corrugated roof, is that right?
Fiber, I think. Do they still
have the tech screw
on top
of it that holds the
roof?
I'll be honest,
I don't know the answer to
that question. I mean, it's
well secured. It's not like
it's rattle, you know, it is
a proper roof
for that. But it's still only
we're talking about on a
that's only on the pergola. So
I don't know what do you know the dimensions of the
pergola. But I mean,
it's quite a large pergola but it's not like
it's not a house, you know,
install. I suppose
in my mind, I was imagining, right,
that roof basically becomes
solar panel. But I don't
know if that's enough size
and I also don't know if we'd have to do
any modification in order to make it
suitable.
If that's the case,
the other option that we have is
that you can do
like a frame.
Sometimes, if they have
plans of putting on a parking
space, then
you use the solar panels as
the roof.
Okay? Or
if there is any
space there that we can use, we can do a ground
mounted. If
there are no available roof that we can
put it on. Because we also
need to consider the orientation.
We only
choose south,
southwest, or west.
So the panel should be facing on those
three orientations. South, southwest,
and west.
That is the most efficient
orientation
that
is for your solar panels.
So if
it's not gonna work on the roof that you're
mentioning, then the option
is you can then, you know,
build the frame
and then you can put the solar
panels on top of it.
I'm not sure if you're gonna be able to, you probably can't see
this. I don't know.
But this is
the, that's the
roof.
Okay, I see.
I understand. However, I
think, since the purpose of that
is for your,
what do you call it, sunlight coming, right?
Actually,
it
was when it was designed.
But I think
my wife's actually been looking at
options to like, if we were to
cover it because of the heat,
you know, the sun coming through. So actually,
that wouldn't be an issue
if it was to be covered,
right? Yeah.
I mean, I
chose that roofing for aesthetic purposes
only. Like, obviously not
really realizing that we
are in a farmland. So, because
of that roofing being transparent,
the sun just goes through
and it gets really hot.
So, if we could have
panels on there,
that would solve the, that would solve
the problem in the
pergola being so hot.
We can do it.
We can put up the solar
panels on top of it. But can I
see the picture again? I was able to see it though.
Yeah, just one second.
Because I think
we
a little bit
closer.
There. So,
I think we need to, there should
be more
perlins.
I'm not sure what type of material that was used
on it. We have hard wood.
Hard wood
supporting the roof.
Okay.
We might need to put more.
Because that design is
just to handle
the weight of the
solar panel and the
transparent roof.
We might need modification,
but potentially that could be
an option.
Because I think, you know,
our alternative is
that we, this becomes
a down the line.
Because we do have hopes
or aspirations, let's say, that we
would like to, at some stage,
create maybe a bit of a more
permanent type build. Not a
house as such, but maybe like
sort of cabanas
joined up, but maybe where we would have a bit
of a, you know, a flat
and we could, you know, then potentially
you put on a, you
know, a purpose build, you know, on
top of that or perhaps even
a covered area
and on top of that covered area
being, you know, like on a terrace sort of
thing, on top of that have the
setup like that. But obviously
that's a, that'd be a future,
not a right now. So that's
yeah, just a thought.
Alright.
Yeah, we can
put up solar panels and
that's gonna be your plan there.
So, yep.
Any more questions when it comes
to the installation on the roof?
No, not for now.
So, you now have
your, you now have an idea
on how you will be able to
put it on the roof thing.
Now, the
one you see here, the HDP
flexible pipe. This is the one that we use
for the conduits
of the wiring outdoors
because this is UV rated
and it can last up to 50 years.
You don't use the regular
orange PVC pipes
because that will not last long.
Alright. So this one, do you have any
idea when it comes to the word
net metering?
Not yet.
Not really.
Okay. So net metering,
I don't know what would be the setup
in your
property there.
But there are some,
what do you call this, some
requirements by the grid or
let's say, bottleneck.
So this is the
the net metering
is making you able
to sell excess harvest.
Alright.
So right now,
as you can see in the picture, this client
has a zero bill
because
they only imported
their energy 312 kWh
and then they exported the energy
715 kWh.
So that compensated the
usage of their
nighttime use.
Because basically, I think
the morning is solar
so the afternoon and the
nighttime usage is 300.
So it's like it becomes a trade off because
you're effectively swapping your excess
daytime use for what
you're using in the
night and it
offsets so that you're saying, okay,
we're not charging you a bill now.
Okay. That's right.
The only thing is
like this is 2022
bill
before they were charging us 10
pesos and 35 per kWh.
But we can only sell
5.38. It's like half the price.
So we have to
sell twice
power so that we can compensate
the nighttime use. So if you
look on the lower left side,
the comparison of their January bill
from last year to 2022,
it's like
adding it half.
And then on the right side, you will see the
exported energy amount,
the 3,849. So that was
the... So that's something we'd
need to check with Batelek then if they
allow that kind of thing,
I suppose.
Just to let you know,
for Batelek or
our electric
power supply
connection there,
I don't get
like a Maralco meter
bill like this.
It's literally just a paper
and then all they do is
they put whatever kWh
na-consume ko and then
the charge.
Ano siya? They call it BAPA. It's like
a...
Collective like that? Yeah, it's a...
Parang
submetered po kayo ganun?
I wouldn't call it submeter pero parang
ano siya?
Ano ba yan? Parang
ano? Parang...
Parang umuupa si Batelek
sa ano na yan? Sa...
I see. It's like
cooperative po kasi. Oo yan.
Cooperative. That's the word I was looking for.
Okay.
Bill na ganito na.
As in detail galing sa Maralco.
It's a
paper and then it says
kWh na gamit
ko times whatever
number per kWh
charge and then the total.
I see. Sige ma'am.
Um...
You would have to check with Batelek
if they would allow net metering
with the setup that you have right now.
Got it. Yeah. Thank you.
Yeah.
And then there. In the net metering
your meter
would be like this.
There will be two
meter. One for your solar
and one for your solar.
So that's one of the requirements.
And then the wiring that
they would...
that we need to comply is that
I'm not sure with Batelek but with
the Maralco it should be like this.
Should be
a steel pipe
from the inverter going to your
meter. So that's why we put
the inverter close to the meter
so that the exposed
part or the exposed pipe should
not be that
long or
it should not be that
exposed. So I just don't know
what would be the requirements from
Batelek.
So sorry. What's the
ask there?
If we were to push through
is there an action for us there? We need to check
with Batelek?
Right now what I see
the problem here is kasi sabi mo
yung dapat
kasi sa med siya dun sa meter namin, right?
Yes po.
Right now the problem with this is
our
kontador
is
outside
I have no idea.
I'm trying to remember
whether our
kontador is
literally outside ba
ng land namin or was it outside?
Kasi
about I would say 200 or 300
meters away
yung lupa namin from
the
poste where we're connected.
So I
I'm not entirely
sure if our kontador
is outside
that barangay road which means it's like
300 meters away from my
land or if it's literally
outside my lupa.
I'm not entirely sure about that.
Okay, most likely
for net metering
it should be in your property.
It should be in your property
and then
I think that would be
how it's gonna
we would
I think the process is that you will have to
request for Batelek if they can
relocate
the meter in your property.
Net metering is in the law
however there are limitations
when it comes to the setup.
So this one naman
kung kung
we only want a net metering meaning like
if we're selling the
excess harvest but otherwise
the setup
is not gonna be like this?
Yes.
I don't think we're gonna be selling it.
So basically I suppose in terms
of a quotation we could get one with
and one without, right?
Yes.
It sounds like it's likely
gonna be a challenge
for us.
And just I suppose
may as well ask the question now that if we
went without and down
the line maybe things sort
of improve just in terms of
the infrastructure in the area and
would we be able to add it?
Could we decide?
Yeah, you can still do that.
It's gonna be
it's like we're just
gonna relocate the inverter maybe
but still
we can apply if
the
developments.
Alright.
So if you don't have any questions
the
payment process
we have so it's
it's 50% down payment upon contract
signing, 50% balance upon turnover
you can make
payment by cash check, bank transfer
transfer credit card.
Then the
lead time would be 7 to 10 days
from the mobilization.
The installation depends on how big the
scale but normally one to two days
we would be able to complete the
installation already after
but we still have if you're decided
then we have to do
an ocular visit so that in that way we
could be planning out the
installation of the system.
Okay.
Alright.
So ma'am, sir
do you have any questions?
So I suppose we've got
well obviously
of course costings is gonna be a
big factor. I notice on your
social media pages
that I think you're offering at the moment
some mid-year promo, 30% discount.
Is that something that's applicable
to us?
Yes, I will
ask our sales office to
just to give you a better idea.
I'll ask them to send
a quotation
for
let's say
we can start with a 5
kilowatt
system.
So how many
do you have during
daytime? You said like 0.6 horsepower
right?
For aircon units
I think each one of them is 0.6
horsepower.
But the thing is so that would probably be
the more at night but it could be
in the day as well but then we also have
a deep well which comes
which is I think a 2
horsepower.
Ang pinakamalakas namin na
nagkukonsum ng koryente I would say
is the 2 horsepower
na deep well pump
because that
dere-derecho lang siya. So every time you're using
water the
obviously the
pump
continuously
hindi siya pinapatay kasi.
So that 2 horsepower
according to Batalik when I spoke with them
before
what they're saying is that
yung development
ko sa lupa I've already
exceeded the
allowed load
ng isang area
or ng isang bahay. I've already
exceeded that so
what they're asking me
to do is to have my own transformer
because they're saying that
apart from the fact that
I'm far away from
the
transformer
my load is already way
too much. It's not
the allowed load anymore
ng koryente. So what they're asking
me to do is have my own
transformer
outside my
right outside my
land.
Para daw I
can get the proper power
supply because right now basically
what they're saying is that I should not
have been allowed to have all of this
built because
the connection that they have provided
me is pretty much just for
a regular house with like
you know electric fan,
very basic things.
Cuba really.
Cuba. But obviously
we have a swimming pool
we have the pump
so sabi nila the pump itself already
that's
already the consumption of a whole house.
Okay.
Just on that
note. So
because
I suppose now where we need to focus
is that in this
kind of setup obviously
as we established
it's not going to run overnight.
It's not going to run overnight. So
that means that we still then go to our
full, we're still
putting all that
pressure or load on the
main supply which means
Batelek is still going to have an issue
without what we're doing, right? So that means
that the transformer
situation, I mean correct me if I'm wrong
because one of the things we were wanting to understand
going into this conversation was
could we bypass or at least delay
that need for us to have our own
transformer by this kind of setup?
If I understand correctly the answer to
that is basically no.
Because, yeah.
Yeah.
We still need to have a stable voltage.
That's the reason why
you need the transformer.
Yeah.
The purpose of your solar would be
focus
on savings but not
the solution for that
problem
transformer. So first I think you need to
fix the transformer concern
and then after that you can move on to the
solar. Yeah.
And I do wonder if the metering thing
with the transformer situation, if that makes
it then easier to bring in house
because the, you know, we're not
using the transformer outside anymore.
Yeah, maybe you can require
like, you know, that would be possible.
Yeah.
Yeah, so
what, yeah,
I mean, yeah, so I guess it would be good
to understand the quotation
perhaps, like I don't know
when we messaged a couple of, and they
without really, this is the first time
I've had a conversation and you've been
really, really helpful and I think we have a
much better idea of what our
options and the
pitfalls, the limitations are.
A couple of them came and said,
oh yeah, it should be a 10 kilowatts
so I suppose it might be good to see
what would the difference be, right? So like you
mentioned five but what if it was ten
because obviously
certain things that are the sort of standardized
set up costs so then actually
increasing the potential
potential then, you know, if it's not that
much more money maybe we would look into it.
In reality,
I suppose
like you said, look, the first
thing that we need to sort out
regardless of this set up is probably the
transformer which likely means
that we would have to push this
back a bit and we solve that
problem first and then we
look at what are our options
but yeah, I
suppose a lot depends on what the
set up cost would be.
Okay, what will
I do is I will be recommending
to send you a quotation
of five kilowatts and
ten kilowatts so that you would see the difference
and I will be sending
also a grid tie
system and a hybrid system.
The one that has the battery so that you would have
an IBM how much it would cost.
Great, okay, that sounds
fantastic.
I suppose because we are
talking about a cost
savings,
do you
provide any sort of
difficult for you, isn't it, but
any sort of rough estimate of
what that would mean?
I suppose obviously one of the things that
we would be interested so now we
know that it's not going to solve a brownout
problem, we know it's not going to solve
a transformer problem
so it really comes down to
it really comes down to
cost savings.
So
yeah, then
to think, well, is it
worthwhile as investing now
in this because of the
monthly what we could expect to
save?
Yeah, you can do
in the quotation
how much the potential kilowatt hour
that your
system would be able to
to produce potentially
and in that
you will see that
you will be able to like estimate
how much savings you can get because I don't know
the rate of your
bill.
Yeah, totally.
Expensive in Batangas
or in Batale. Yeah, and even
though I, to be honest, just see the cost
at the end of the, I don't know what the consumption
is so I couldn't tell you
that. I would have to look at the
I don't even know, I don't even see
the bill so I'd have to ask, ask my wife
for that.
Alright, fantastic.
So what do you think?
Is that everything that
you need then in order to provide us
with that quotation?
Yeah,
we will send you our packages
so
so that you may have
you would have the idea. I think there's
nothing else that I need to know.
And just one, one final question
then. So if we were, let's say we
got the quotation and
and maybe we've solved this
transformer issue already and we decide
that, you know, we are, we are
interested.
In terms of the, because we still, you know,
we're only looking at pictures
and, you know, to look at, oh yeah, maybe we could put
it on that, on that roof, right?
The pergola might not be big enough for the
setup that we, we need, for example.
So on that ocula, how does that work?
Do we, do we need
to pay for the ocula because
we haven't, we haven't signed
up yet? Or how is, how will that work?
Normally, we don't
really charge. But we go out
there if you are like,
for example, the reason
why we sent quotations so that the customer would
know how much it is. So in that way, they would
already have an idea. And if you think it
will work for you, then we would be going out
there to check. Okay.
Understood, understood.
Yeah, appreciate that. So
my apologies. What's your,
what's your name? John.
John? Yeah. John.
All right. Well, yeah, you've been
really, really helpful, John. So yeah,
really, really appreciate that. It's
yeah, it can be a bit of a minefield. Like I say,
there's so many different options and
companies out there. But I think
being able to sort of speak face-to-face like
this is really, really
useful. So I think whatever we
do next, I think
we're a lot better informed now.
So really appreciate your time.
Well, thank you. And
thank you so much for your time
as well.
Nice one. All right. Cheers then, John.
All right. Take care then.
Okay. All right. Discause if you have a question.
Thank you. When will we
expect, sorry, the quotation?
Maybe today or tomorrow.
Fantastic. Okay. Brilliant.
We'll look forward to that. Okay.
All right. All right.
Thank you. Take care then.
Bye-bye. Bye.
